Hi.
This is Craig Golightly, and welcome to AWS Databases: The Big Picture,
Becoming a Database Specialist.
Let's talk about the role of a database specialist and some of
the different skills to learn for that role.
We'll also cover the five domains AWS uses to describe a database
specialist and how those map to real‑world applications.
Finally,
I'll discuss the AWS Certified Database ‑ Specialty exam and how
learning more about the AWS database offerings can help you whether
or not you're planning to take the exam.
Data is evolving at an exponential pace.
The amount of data generated every day is orders of
magnitude larger than 5 or 10 years ago and doesn't show
signs of slowing down anytime soon.
Here's some statistics from Domo's Data Never Sleeps 8.0 about
what was happening every minute of 2020.
There's a huge variety of activities with a wide variety of
data involved to complete these actions,
and we expect most of these transactions to be instantaneous.
Reports can't take all night or weekend to run,
they'll be outdated before they finish.
It's no longer enough to just have one powerful database.
You need several types of databases to handle different
types of data and operational requirements.
Specialization is the key.
Being a database specialist is about knowing what service to use for a
given scenario and how to best use that service.
In other words, it requires both breadth and depth.
While it may feel like you have to know everything about
everything when it comes to databases,
let's break the process down a little further.
You can think of breadth as choosing the best technology for the task at hand
and depth as using that technology in the best way possible.
Understanding the different AWS database offerings is what this
course and this path are going to help you with.
This helps you know your options when deciding on a
solution for your implementation.
I'll cover each database service at a high level in this course,
some use cases that the service does a good job at,
as well as some use cases where you would not want to use the service.
Knowing what not to use for certain use cases can help you avoid
common pitfalls that you may experience if you're not aware of the
different database types and services.
Choosing the right service for the job saves you development time,
makes maintenance easier,
and can drastically improve the performance of your solution.
Once you're working with a particular database service,
having a depth of knowledge of the service helps you set up secure and robust
systems to handle complex scenarios in the database domain.
For example, what tasks are managed by the service?
What geographical configurations are supported?
Are there any restrictions on data size?
What tools can you use with the service?
Knowing the feature set of each service helps you work quickly and
implement your solution in the best possible way.
Database design involves making decisions based on certain constraints.
The most common constraints you'll encounter are time,
cost, security, and complexity.
For time, you may have a minimum query time.
For some industries,
a slowdown of just a few milliseconds on query
response time can affect the application.
You might have a requirement for how long a backup should take to run or
how long you have to restore a database from a backup.
You might have an uptime constraint to keep for a service level agreement,
or SLA.
How quickly can your solution be implemented?
Will it require additional skill sets,
and do you have access to individuals with those skill sets,
or will existing team members need to be trained?
Rarely will a project have unlimited budget,
so cost is almost always a top consideration.
Knowing the cost for different elements of your database solution
and how those costs change based on your usage and configuration is
essential as you design your solution.
Accounting for costs and providing appropriate audit data is also important,
particularly in multitenant situations where you need to allocate
cost back to different users of your application.
Cost and performance are closely tied together,
and being able to define that relationship helps you understand the
incremental cost for adding resources to boost performance,
as well as the incremental cost for adding more data to your database.
Security constraints are often nonnegotiable,
so knowing what is and is not supported for your database can help you
avoid a partial implementation that has to be scrapped because the proper
security wasn't considered from the beginning.
Encryption is built into some services,
while others need to be configured to enable that feature.
You'll also have different options when it comes to
encryption keys and access policies,
all of which can affect the other constraints you're working with.
Finally, complexity.
In meeting the other constraints, how complex is your solution?
Is there anything you can do to simplify the design or the
number of services involved in your solution?
For example, some backup operations can involve additional AWS services,
while others happen automatically within the database service itself.
You may be able to increase performance,
but it could add a few more layers of complexity to
your database implementation.
Data management is one of those things that is expected to just work,
but it usually takes quite a bit of work to get it done.
If you're updating an existing system,
changing database types or migrating to the cloud,
getting data into the target system is a major task.
Understanding the different options, constraints,
and tools available based on your particular database
setup can help make the transition easier.
Backup and Restore is another major operational component of using a database,
and each service has different options.
Do you need to run on a schedule or just manually as needed?
Should the backups be encrypted or is plaintext okay?
Are there geographic constraints for where backups
should be relative to the target system.
How much time do you have for Backup and Restore?
Can it be done with the database online,
or do you have to take the database offline?
Having the proper data protection in place can make or
break a business when disaster strikes,
so getting Backup and Restore set up right is one of the most
important tasks of your database implementation.
Finally, automation is an important tool when it comes to data management.
Consistent, reliable automation can help reduce the chance of
introducing errors into your solution when performing data
management tasks manually. Other AWS services,
as well as native and third‑party tools, are available to
help you automate data management tasks.
Data management decisions often affect the performance,
cost, and complexity of your solution.
So as you work through the constraints we discussed on the previous slide,
be aware of how data management can help you bring those constraints into the proper balance for your implementation.